I was having a show at a gallery in
Chelsea and was screening a lot of my
films and had drawings all over the
walls and someone who had seen my work
before but hadn't seen it sort of all in
one place who was an art director at the
times on the opinion page came to the
show and we chatted briefly and then
about a week later I got a phone call
basically offering me this amazing
window and the deal was basically to
make a film a month that would appear on
the opinion page of the New York Times
online it's opened up a an incredible
window of viewership you know more
people see one of my films on line then
all of my films all together at every
festival and every museum show and every
gallery show put together it's instant
and it's worldwide and all the obvious
things about the web I've really
transformed both how the films are seen
and to a certain extent the way I make
them as well this is a scene from the
July times film called parade the parade
and it's it's a portrait of a man that I
filmed in the street and he just
basically walks towards the camera and
there's so much personality in his walk
which even though we're just seeing his
face the way he moves up and down you
know how old he is you know how he's
feeling it's all in the expression and
the rhythm of his walk
the idea is to find these moments where
person is articulated in their emotion
in their appearance so it's just a way
to articulate film images using
incredibly antiquated but still
completely lovely mediums like
hysterical it has a completely different
look and feel than video originated
here's something the tactility of these
mediums is evident in every frame I've
been making experimental films most of
my life welcome from the family of
painters and film was the last frontier
so it was really an instant match for me
it's a way to make paintings come alive
which is really exciting this box
represents the entire film which is a
minute and change and then 20 something
and it's probably around $1,500 and it's
all on watercolor paper of one sort or
another
I'm paid as if I were you know a regular
columnist I guess public junior-level
even so the money doesn't it's just
about covers the rent and the and I give
half of it to my composer
so it actually I sort of lose money each
month on making these films the funds
are very visible and very viewed and
although they aren't profitable unto
themselves in terms of you know the
times paying me
they have been incredible in increasing
my viewership and that's resulted in a
lot of additional work commissions
selling paintings and DVDs so I mean I'm
doing now a music video for one of my
musical heroes and basically I got my
jobs to the New York Times it's a you
know he'd he'd been watching the films
all the times and contacted me through
his management and that would have never
happened in any other universe you know
there's no way he would have seen my
thumbs at museums or film festivals the
idea of evolving a language of images
that isn't necessarily parallel to the
language of words but it's something
different something unique unto itself
has been the line of exploration from
the earth the last couple of years you
know this idea of trying to make these
short films that the palette was as much
of emotions and memories as it is of
paint pigment and video in a sense many
of them have become metaphoric or
universal home movies in an idealized
sense that they are memories
that can go into a can a box and be
replayed plot back to life at any moment
need to be I guess I mean that's one of
the more interesting things about fun to
me at the moment this idea that it does
put time in a box
you